# An Analysis of Kickstarter Campaigns
##This analysis covers kickstarter campaigns across a host of fields, with an acute focus of theater and plays. (Module One, Bootcamp)
We can establish several insights from the analysis of the Kickstarter data.
  
  ###Aspiring plays whose Kickstarter campaigns failed, tended to have higher goals, this was shown by both the mean and the median. The mean of the successful fundraising goals was just under half the mean of the failed funding goals. On the other hand, the median goal for successful plays was sixty percent of the size of the median goals for the failed endeavors. We can discern a slight skew to the distribution with this combined information. The difference in the standard deviation and the IQR of the goal reinforces this skew. Six failed of the fundraising attempts that would be considered outliers according to the IQR technique. Interestingly, standard deviation method did not reveal any outliers. The discrepancy between the two methods highlights the comparative robustness of the IQR method and illuminates a cause of the skew. Another factor that leaps from the fundraising numbers, was that the failed attempts are typically nowhere near reaching their lofty goals. The median goal for failed attempts was almost fifty times the size of the median of pledged dollars. This gigantic discrepancy is shocking, and thus the desired budgets are not entirely to blame for the projects’ failures.
  Analysis of the launch dates for the plays makes a few things clear.  There is a distinct uptick in the success rates for projects that begin in May, this advantage slowly weakens through June and July, and dissipates entirely by August. The worst time to release a play is December, as it is the only month where the number of failures and successes nearly converge. The rest of the year maintains an interestingly steady ratio of successes and failures.
  It is important to set a realistic goal when starting the fundraising process. The IQR for successful plays is $3,500, so it would be wise to set a budget near that amount. Schedule the play’s release for May, as it is clearly the peak month for success.
